# Efficiently Transforming Tables for Joinability
This repository contains resources developed within the following paper:

    A. Dargahi Nobari, and D. Rafiei. “Efficiently Transforming Tables for Joinability”.
	
You may check the [paper](#) ([PDF](#)) or the [extended version](https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.09912) for more information.

## Requirements

Python 3.7+ (without any specific library) is sufficient to run the code.


## Usage
The source files are located in `src` directory:
- `join.py`: A simple example of an end to end join with our approach. For advanced settings and a detailed output on transformations and join process, `main.py` and `transformation_joiner.py` should be used.


- `main.py`: This file is the main to run our approach or our implementation of auto-join on a set of tables.
    It can be called with no command-line argument to use default values for all parameters.

    To set the method, parameters, and paths, a config json file may be passed as a command-line argument:
    
    `python3 src/main.py -c config_sample.json`
    
    A sample config file is provided in `config_sample.json`. The extracted transformations will be stored in the output path defined in the config file or default `output` directory.
    
    This file will generate the transformations. To use the transformations for a table join `transformation_joiner.py` may be used.


- `transformation_joiner.py`: This file can parse the transformations generated by `main.py` and utilize them for table join.


- `dataset_generator.py`: This file generates synthetic datasets given the parameters provided in command-line arguments. Use the help function to get a list of arguments and their details:

    `python3 src/dataset_generator.py --help`


- `auto_fuzzy_join.py`: This file is to apply the join via the code provided by Auto-FuzzyJoin authors. This is a baseline method and not a part of our approach.




## Citation

Please cite the paper, If you used the codes in this repository.
